1) ls command-ls is a Linux shell command that lists directory
contents of files and directories. It provides valuable information
about files, directories, and their attributes.
2) ls -l command - known as a long format
that displays detailed information about files and directories.
3) ls -a command - Represent all files Include hidden files
and directories in the listing.
4) cd command-The ‘cd’ command allows users to change their
current working directory within the file system.
5) pwd -L command- The ‘pwd,’ which stands for “print working
directory.” Prints the symbolic path.
6) pwd -P command -The ‘pwd,’ which stands for “print working
directory.” Prints the actual path.
7) cat command-The cat command in Linux is more than just a
simple tool; it’s a versatile companion for various file-related
operations, allowing users to view, concatenate, create, copy,
merge, and manipulate file contents.
8) cat -n command -Adding the -noption to cat introduces line
numbers, making it convenient to identify and reference specific
lines within the file.
9) cat > file_name command - If you want to create a new file or
overwrite an existing file with new content, you can use ‘cat’ with
the output redirection (`>`):
10) mkdir command- This command can create
multiple directories at once as well as set the permissions for the
directories. ‘mkdir’ stands for “make directory,”.
11) mkdir –v command - Enables verbose mode, displaying a
message for every directory created. When used with the
[directories] argument, it shows the names of the directories being
created.
12) mkdir –p command - A flag that allows the creation of parent
directories as necessary. If the specified directories already exist,
no error is reported. Useful for creating a directory
hierarchywithout errors.
13) rmdir command - The rmdir command is useful when
you want to remove the empty directories from the
filesystem in Linux.
14) rmdir –v command - If you want the terminal to
display the message after
removing the directory, you can use the -v option with the rmdir
command:
15) rmdir –p command - You can use the -p option with the rmdir
command to delete a directory, including all the subdirectories:
16) rm command - rm stands for remove here. rm command is used
to remove objects such as files, directories, symbolic links and so on
from the file system like UNIX.
17) rm –v command - If you want the terminal
to display the message after removing the file, youcan use the -v
option with the rm command:
18) rm –i command - If the file is write-protected, rm will ask you to
validate its deletion; otherwise, it will delete it without prompting.
Using the “-i” flag to force rm to prompt for confirmation before
deleting a file.
19) cp command - This command creates a copy of the `source_file`
at the specified `destination`. If the destination is a directory, the
file is copied into that directory.
20) cp –i command - i stands for Interactive copying. With this
option the system first warns the user before overwriting the
destination file. cp prompts for a response, if you press y then it
overwrites the file and with any other option leaves it
uncopied.
21) cp –f command - -f(force): If the system is unable to open
destination file for writing operation because the user doesn’t have
writing permission for this file then by using -f option with cp
command, destination file is deleted first and then copying of
content is done from source to
destination file.
22) mv command (to rename a file)- mv command in linux is
used to rename file directories and move files from one location
to another within a file system.
23) mv command (to rename a directory)- mv command in linux
is used to rename file directories and move files from one
location to another within a file system.
24) mv command (to move a file to another directory) - mv
command in linux is used to rename file directories and move
files from one location to another within a file system.
25) chmod command - In Unix operating systems, the chmod
command is used to change the access mode of a file. The name is
an abbreviation of change mode. Which states that every fileand
directory has a set of permissions that control the permissions like
who can read, write or
execute the file. In this the permissions have three
categories: read, write, and execute simultaneously represented by `r`,
`w` and `x`. These letters
combine together to form a specific permission for a group of users.The
`chmod` command is used to modify this permission so that itcan grant
or restrict access to directories and files.
Symbolic mode is the most common method used for specifying fir
permissions. In this we must make a combination of letters and
operators to set or tell what to do with permissions.
The following operators can be used with the symbolic mode:
