1) echo
The echo command in Linux is used to display a line of text or a variable
value to the standard output (usually the terminal). It can also be used to
write textto a file when redirected.
1a. echo -n
Prints without a trailing newline.
1b. echo with appending
Appends text to the back of the given file.
2) clear
The clear command in Linux is used to clear the terminal screen, removing
all previous output. It provides a clean workspace, making it easier to view
new commands or results.
1
S12/35
3) exit
Exits from the terminal
4) date
The date command in Linux is used to display the current date and time in a
specified format. It can also be used to set the system date and time, or output
the date in different formats using various options.
4a. date -u
Displays the current date and time in UTC (Coordinated Universal Time).
2
S12/35
5) time
The time command in Linux is used to measure the duration of time a
command takes to execute. It provides real-time, user CPU time, and system
CPU time statistics after the command completes.
6) uptime
The uptime command in Linux displays the system's uptime, showing how
long the system has been
running since the last reboot. It also provides the current time, number of
users, and system load
averages for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes.
6a. uptime -s
Shows the exact start time of the system.
6b. uptime -V
Displays the version of the uptime command.
3
S12/35
7) cal
The cal command in Linux displays a calendar for the current month by
default. It can also be used
with options to show calendars for specific months, years, or even a specific
range of months.
7a. cal -jy
-j (Julian dates): Displays the calendar with Julian days, where the days of the
year are numbered sequentially from 1 to 365 (or 366 for leap years).
-y (Year calendar): Displays the calendar for the entire year.
When combined, cal -jy displays the calendar for the entire year, with each
day labeled using its Julian day number.
4
S12/35
7b. cal month year
The cal command in Unix/Linux is used to display a calendar. When used
with the arguments month and year, it displays the calendar for the specified
month and year.
5
S12/35
8) cat
The cat command in Linux is used to concatenate and display the contents of
one or more files to the
standard output (usually the terminal). It is commonly used to quickly view
the content of a file or
combine files into one.
9) tty
The tty command in Linux displays the file name of the terminal connected to
the user. It shows the
device name where the user is currently working, useful for identifying the
terminal session.
9a. tty --silent
The command returns an exit status but does not print anything to the
terminal. The tty --silent option is mainly used in scripts to determine if the
standard input is connected to a terminal without displaying the terminal
name.
6
S12/35
9b. tty –version
The tty --version command in Unix/Linux is used to display the version
information of the tty command. It prints the version number of the tty utility
along with copyright information.
10)man
The man command in Linux is used to display the manual pages (help
documentation) for other
commands and programs. It provides detailed information on usage, options,
and examples for a
given command. For example, man ls shows the manual for the ls command.
7
S12/35
10a. man -V
The man -V command in Unix/Linux is used to display the version
information of the man (manual) command. Prints the version number of the
man utility along with additional details
10b. man --help
The man --help command in Unix/Linux displays the help message for the
man (manual) command, listing available options and their descriptions.
8
S12/35
10) which
The which command in Linux is used to locate the executable file associated
with a command. It
shows the full path of the command that will be executed when typed in the
terminal.
9
S12/35
11) history
The history command in Linux displays a list of previously executed
commands in the current shell
session. It allows users to review, reuse, or modify commands from the
history list.
12) Id
The id command in Linux is used to display user and group information for
the current user or a
specified user. It shows the user's UID (User ID), GID (Group ID), and the
groups they belong to.
10
S12/35
13) pwd
The pwd (print working directory) command in Linux displays the full path
of the current directory
the user is working in. It shows the absolute path starting from the root
directory.
14) whoami
The whoami command in Linux displays the current logged-in user's
username. It is a simple way to check which user is currently authenticated
and active in the session.
11
S12/35
15) ping
The ping command in Linux is used to test the network connectivity between
your system and another system (usually a remote host). It sends ICMP echo
requests and waits for the reply, helping to diagnose network issues.
16a. ping -i
ping commands are typically used to check network connectivity between
devices, and the -i flag specifies the interval between sending each packet (in
seconds).
16) ifconfig
The ifconfig command in Linux is used to configure, manage, and display
network interfaces on the
system. It shows the IP address, netmask, and MAC address of active
interfaces.
12
S12/35
17a. ifconfig ~a
Displays network interface configuration for all active interfaces, but ~a
seems incorrect. It should be -a to list all interfaces.
17b. ifconfig eth0
Displays the configuration of the eth0 network interface, including IP address,
netmask, and other network details.
13
S12/35
17) pr
The pr command in Linux is used to paginate or format text files for printing.
It allows you to divide
the output into columns, add headers, footers, and other formatting options,
making it more
readable for printing or viewing large files.
14
S12/35
18a. pr -2 -w 80 -n filename.txt
Formats filename.txt to be printed with two columns (-2), a width of 80
characters (-w 80), and page numbers (-n).
18) lp
The lp command in Unix is used for submitting print jobs to printers. It sends
files to be printed to a printer or print queue.
19) lpr
The lpr command in Unix is another command for submitting print jobs to
printers, similar to the lp command. It is often used to send files to be printed
to a printer or print queue.
20) lpstat
Displays information about print queue.
21) lpq
The lpq command in Unix is used to display the status of print queues on a
system. It shows information about print jobs in the queue such as job ID,
owner, file size, and status
